Separate content build (#6915)
department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team: platform/engineering/design-docs/separate-content-build.md

# Separate Content Build

**Author(s):** Christopher Valarida  
**Last Updated:** March 16 2020  
**Status:** **Draft** | In Review | Approved  
**Approvers:** Dror Matalon, Andrew Gunsch, Rian Fowler  

## Overview

### Objective
The objective here is to define an approach to isolate the concerns of the
content build from the front end application build and vice versa.

This design document is intended for front end engineers and DevOps engineers on
the Veteran-facing Services Platform (VSP) and other Veteran-Facing Services
(VFS) teams. Most directly affected is the Content Management System (CMS) team.

> ### Background

Reviewer: There's good information in here but I think we need to work on the outline and organization to tie it together more. Some ideas: 

- Start by describing things in terms of business goal. This defines the core pieces you'll refer to in your design document. 
  - VA.gov is composed of static content (.html), frontend applications (.js), and styling (.css). All of these are deployed to and hosted from S3. 
  - static content is deployed to S3 as content updates are published in the Drupal CMS
  - frontend applications and styling are deployed daily as part of the vets-website CI pipeline 
- Describe the major processes in terms of workflows (triggers, inputs, processes, outputs, exceptions)
  - automatic triggers: 
    - static content: CMS publishing event?
    - frontend applications and styling: scheduled weekdaily jenkins job
  - manual triggers 
  - metalsmith 
    - I wouldn't describe from the implementation perspective. Metalsmith is an orchestrator- even though the stuff is in one script, there are a couple of processes contained. the static content build, the application + styling builds. 
    - Part of the idea is to describe a cleaner mental model for these things so when you describe the design, it's more obvious why we're going this route. Like "here's this clean concept" and "here's this legacy messy implementation" and "here's the cleaner implementation that matches the clean concept" 
  - validations

Author: Has this been addressed by the blurb before the Build Script section?

        the assets [from S3](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/plugins/download-assets.js#L111)
        - Process is triggered [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/Jenkinsfile.content#L32)
    - Does **NOT** run any content validation such as accessibility tests or
      broken link checker
2. [Full deploy](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/#full-deploy-of-vagov-client-app)
    - For `vets-website` code changes
    - Creates a new release and deploys it
    - Fetches the latest Drupal content
      - Falls back to the cached content in S3 from the last successful deploy
        (full or partial)
        <!-- TODO: Verify that either deploy will cache the pages.json and files -->
    - Runs the accessibility tests and link checker

See [here](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/)
for more details.

#### Pain points

> - Engineers developing applications need CMS content to build their applications

Reviewer: In general, pain points can be described in terms of dependencies, blockers, friction, and volatility. This is what I'm scanning for when I read this document- abstractions of problems in workflows. 

- Validation failures unrelated to a code change can **block** automatic pull request approvals
  - more detail on why this is a problem. in this case I think it's an isolation problem- publication is not tied to any validation so we perform that validation in an unrelated workflow (the website CI)
- Building content adds **friction** to running frontend applications locally
  - Frontend app development relies on the output of the CMS build process. No steps are coordinated between the static content and frontend application build processes. 
  - Developers are required to run this build because the implementation of these two processes is entangled

    - This maps pretty cleanly to the current partial deploy
1. Application build
    - Input: `vets-website` code
    - Output: JavaScript and CSS bundles
    - This essentially maps to the current full deploy minus the content

The output of both these builds will be deployed to a single S3 bucket with
safeguards in place to ensure they don't override each other.

**Another important note:** There is no way to coordinate these two deploys to
make an application live for the first time. The process will be to manually:
1. Verify the application assets are live in production
1. Make the landing page live in production in the content build
    - Depending on the answer to [this
      question](#react-application-landing-pages), this may mean publishing the
      page in Drupal or switching the flag in the JSON file
1. Deploy a new content build

## Specifics

### Detailed Design

#### Content build in a separate repository
The content build will live in a separate repository called `content-build`.
This repository will contain only code pertaining to the content build.

![Separated content code base](images/phase-2-separated-content-build.png)

> #### Coordinating deployments to S3

Author: This is maybe not the best description for what I'm talking about. What other words can I use instead?

We use S3 to serve a static site. To do this, the bucket consists of a file tree
which corresponds to the URLs on VA.gov. For example, `/education/index.html` is
the file that's served at www.va.gov/education/.

The output of the application build **currently** live in the `/generated/`
directory. To support the transition, the **new** application build will put its
assets in the `/applications/` directory.

![Coordinating deployments to S3](images/coordinating-deployments-to-s3.png)

To ensure that one build won't override files in the other, we'll have to
1. Update
   [`vets-website-deploy.sh`](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/devops/blob/2c63e6d62fa5ad2b6b87478e30d0a7bc2820c252/ansible/deployment/roles/deploy-vets-website/files/vets-website-deploy.sh)
   to copy only to the `/applications/` directory
1. Create a new deploy script for the content deployment which copies everything

>    over _except_ the `/applications/` directory

Author: This seems not quite right, but....I don't remember the specifics. :bat-signal: @nathanhruby

Author: Also, would this be a good place to add the bit about updating the "poor man's CDN" (as you so eloquently described it the other day :smile: )? Looking at the script I linked to, it kind of reads like that's the one that copies it to the assets bucket, but....I'm not 100% sure and would appreciate any clarification you can lend.

## Overview

### Objective
The objective here is to define an approach to isolate the concerns of the
content build from the front end application build and vice versa.

This design document is intended for front end engineers and DevOps engineers on
the Veteran-facing Services Platform (VSP) and other Veteran-Facing Services
(VFS) teams. Most directly affected is the Content Management System (CMS) team.

### Background
VA.gov is composed of static content (`.html`), applications (`.js`), and
styling (`.css`).

Static content files are created from the **[Metalsmith build
script](#build-script)**. Application bundles are created with Webpack.

These builds are currently **orchestrated by the same build script.**

The **[CI pipeline](#ci-pipeline)** runs this build script (among other things)
whenever a commit is pushed to a branch in GitHub. On a branch, this build must
be successful **before the branch can be merged.**

The output of this build are **[deployed](#deployment) to and hosted from an AWS
S3 bucket**. Applications are deployed on a weekdaily schedule. New content is
deployed by a manual trigger from the CMS and by the weekdaily application
deployment.

> 

Author: I can call it out here too, yeah. :+1: 

I'll even add that link to the document! :smile: Thanks!

> 

Author: @nathanhruby Can you verify that this is what we do now? I'm reasonably confident, but know so little about he details of this process. :grimacing:

> 

Author: Reading that versioning document more closely, I think it's _not_ what we're doing. I think we have folders inside S3 that we use as versions...I think.

> 

Reviewer 2: What we do currently is have the build generate artifacts in the form of tarballs of what the bucket should be, and store those in a dedicated s3 bucket (and/or github as part of a release).  

The deploy then grabs the tarball for the git commit you are deploying and does a sync of data to the correct buckets (we deploy to a site bucket as well as an assets bucket).

Thus a redeploy of any git sha (including previous) is how one would do a "rollback"

> 

Author: We can change this up later if we feel the need, but for now, I'm checking this off as out-of-scope for this document.

I look forward to your design document on the deploy process you're thinking up, @Clark-W-Griswold :grin:

The entangling of the content and application builds have [led to
frustrations](#pain-points) for engineers, slower iteration cycles due to failed
builds, and failed production deployments.

#### Build script
[Metalsmith](https://github.com/segmentio/metalsmith) is a static content build
pipeline orchestrator. `vets-website` uses it to manage the steps in the content
build. The highlights of what this script does include:
- Fetching static content from Drupal
- Building static HTML pages from the content
- Triggering Webpack to build JS and CSS bundles
- Creating the HTML pages for the React Single-Page Applications (SPAs)
- Checking all HTML pages for broken links

> The script can be found [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/index.js).

Reviewer 3: readability pro-tip, never link the word "here"

```suggestion
See [the build script](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/index.js) for more details
```

  - This iterates through all the pages on the sitemap, which is created by the
    content build script
- Broken link checks on static content pages
  - The actual link checking happens during the build script, but it isn't
    reported anywhere until [after the build script has been run](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/jenkins/common.groovy#L200)
    
#### Deployment
There are currently two kinds of deployments:
1. [Partial deploy](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/#partial-deploy--static-page-changes-only)
    - For static pages only
    - Uses the latest `vets-website` release and static assets
      - Does not trigger Webpack to build the JS and CSS bundles
      - Instead,
        [fetches](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/plugins/configure-assets.js#L22-L23)
        the assets [from S3](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/plugins/download-assets.js#L111)

>         - Process is triggered [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/Jenkinsfile.content#L32)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Process is triggered [from this Jenkins config](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/Jenkinsfile.content#L32)
```

>         - Process is triggered [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/Jenkinsfile.content#L32)

Reviewer 3: tiny nit: each of these links is going to get out of date fast since you're linking to `master` with line numbers

    - Does **NOT** run any content validation such as accessibility tests or
      broken link checker
2. [Full deploy](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/#full-deploy-of-vagov-client-app)
    - For `vets-website` code changes
    - Creates a new release and deploys it
    - Fetches the latest Drupal content
      - Falls back to the cached content in S3 from the last successful deploy
        (full or partial)
        <!-- TODO: Verify that either deploy will cache the pages.json and files -->
    - Runs the accessibility tests and link checker

> See [here](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See [the deployment documentation](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/)
```

for more details.

#### Pain points
- Engineers encounter **confusing build errors** that are due to the mismatch in
  outdated locally cached content and updated Liquid templates
- Fetching content from the CMS and building HTML files when developing
  applications **slows down the local builds** for engineers unnecessarily

> - When their applications have nothing to with the CMS

Reviewer 3: is this an unfinished sentence, or a misplaced bullet point?

Author: Ah, dang it. Yeah, I rephrased this section and that point got orphaned. :face_with_head_bandage:

- It **requires either SOCKS proxy access** or the `npm run fetch-drupal-cache`
  command, which isn't obvious
- **Application deployments and PR builds fail** when content in the CMS is
  invalid
  - This includes broken links and accessibility violations
  - We have a safeguard that mostly works; if we run into a failure using the
    latest CMS content, we try again with the cached content in S3 from the last
    successful build
    - This doesn't work when the GraphQL query has been updated; that
      invalidates the cache
    - Errors in liquid templates would potentially break the build and falling
      back to the cache won't help

### High Level Design

> The current front end build will be split up into two distinct builds:

Reviewer 3: To confirm: this is talking just about splitting up the _build_ step, not changing anything w/r/t deployment?

Could you explain in this doc how these two build types map to the partial vs. full deploys?

Author: Right, this specific line is talking about the build step. The document as a whole I think has to address the deployments, but that's not this part.

I think I can add some points to the section below to map the new builds to the current deploys. :+1:

Author: I added the points I mentioned. Does that resolve this?

1. Content build
    - Input: CMS content
    - Output: HTML files, assets from the CMS (PDFs, images and the like)

> 1. Application build

Reviewer 3: I feel like there's a place for some diagrams here about how these two builds interact

Author: I wasn't sure how to represent this visually in a way that was more helpful than bullet points. Any suggestions?

    - Input: `vets-website` code
    - Output: JavaScript and CSS bundles

The output of both these builds will be deployed to separate buckets. The
reverse proxies will route traffic intelligently to the appropriate bucket given
the request.

> 

Author: This is probably a good idea, but out of scope for this document.

> 

Reviewer 3: I suspect that "CloudFront in front of S3" is a pretty separate FE conversation / architecture change we consider have, but we already depend pretty directly on S3 as-is, so that's at least not a new pattern. (IIRC there are govt regulation concerns with CloudFront that don't work for us)

![Proposed traffic flow to S3 buckets](images/proposed-traffic-flow-to-s3-buckets.png)

**Important note:** JavaScript application landing pages will live in the CMS.
To get an application into production, the page in Drupal will need to be
published.

**Another important note:** There is no way to coordinate these two deploys to
make an application live for the first time. The process will be to manually:
1. Verify the application assets are live in production
1. Publish the landing page
1. Deploy a new content build

## Specifics

> ### Detailed Design

Reviewer 3: I don't see anything about how these builds are triggered. when are these builds run and deployed? who can run/deploy them?

Author: Ah, good point. Short story:
- Application build is triggered on all commits pushed to GitHub (same as it is now)
- Application code is deployed on a weekdaily schedule
  - Probably in Jenkins at first until we can move it to Circle or something
- Content build and deploy (together) are triggered from Drupal
  - Same as it is now—I just don't know the specifics of how that all is wired up
  - This can be triggered by users with a certain permission in Drupal (again, not sure the specifics)

I'll sync with @ElijahLynn to get the specifics on the Drupal trigger and add those points in.

Author: Added a section on this below. It's pretty sparse, but it's what I know.

#### Build and deploy
- The content build will live in a separate repository
  - **Question:** What should we call this?
  - **Question:** Can the application build be run in Circle?

>   - **Question:** Where can we run the content build?

Reviewer 3: are you intending to answer these in this doc? :)

Author: Yup! As soon as I have answers! :sweat_smile: 

For now, these are questions I either don't know how to answer myself or would like input from you and the other reviewers. The final draft will have these all answered or removed.

> - Content will be deployed to a separate S3 bucket from the application code

Reviewer 3: what bucket?
do we need separate buckets for staging/prod?

Author: No idea! I know just enough to be dangerous here. After @Clark-W-Griswold's review, I'm reconsidering this multi-bucket approach, so this may get removed.

I'd appreciate any insight from @nathanhruby or @wyattwalter.

> - The S3 buckets will have versioned directories in them with the contents of

Reviewer 3: can you more concretely specify what this directory structure will look like?

> - The S3 buckets will be [versioned](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Versioning.html)

Author: Do we want versioned buckets like this, or use directories within the bucket named by like commit hash or timestamp or something?

  each deployment

>   - Old directories will be removed after 90 days

Reviewer 3: how? what removes them?

Author: Probably a script somewhere. _Waves hands vaguely._

Is this a thing we even need to worry about, @wyattwalter?

    - **Question:** What makes sense? This is a totally arbitrary number

> 

Author: Great question! I think we'll start with one version for everything as the MVP, and we can add more advanced routing later through the forward proxy. I could call that out in the Future Work section. :+1:

#### Routing
- The nginx will route their traffic based on some configuration file

>   - **Question:** What configuration file? How does it work?

Author: I think I'd prefer to keep configuration out of the browser. It's just a hunch, but I feel like that'd come back to bite us in some unexpected way down the road. Seems weird to be like, "Here's the version, you figure out what to go get," instead of just serving the right thing, y'know?

>   - **Question:** What configuration file? How does it work?

Reviewer: FWIW I think we need to have JS/CSS in the critical rendering path referenced in the initial document response. `fetch()`ed JS has very low download priority on browsers- lower than initial doc CSS and images.

#### Testing changes to applications

> - The `webpack-dev-server` will create application landing pages for local

Reviewer 3: this seems like something that needs a lot more details

Author: Short story: Currently, these landing pages are generated in the Metalsmith build. When we move the Metalsmith build out of `vets-websites`, it'll introduce a couple needs:
- Engineers still need those pages to serve up the applications they're building
- E2E tests still need to be run against "live" pages, not just pointed at JS bundles

To solve these problems, my idea was to make the dev server spin up temporary landing pages. These temporary pages would not be in production, but are meant to mirror it.

:thinking: There are probably other concerns this new process would introduce, but I'm not sure what all they are yet.

Is this the kind of detail you think should be added here, or are you thinking about something else entirely?

Reviewer 3: > There are probably other concerns this new process would introduce, but I'm not sure what all they are yet.

That's my concern --- and that's what this design doc should address! So yes.

Go back to "you should be able to hand this doc off to a junior engineer and expect them to be able to implement it." Major questions / concerns should be cleared out already, and ideally there wouldn't be any unanticipated roadblocks left.

  testing
- The E2E tests in CI will run the `webpack-dev-server` to serve the site so
  they have access to the landing pages

#### Miscellaneous
- We need a separate content validation job that runs once a day on a schedule
  - **Question:** How will we validate links to `vets-website` assets?
  - **Question:** Where will this job be run? Jenkins? Nomad? Circle?
- The application build will be responsible for creating the `settings.js`
  - It's currently a step in the Metalsmith script
- The landing pages to the applications will be created in the CMS
- The CMS repo will no longer import `vets-website`, but rather the new content
  build repo

### Code Location
To start, the **content build** will live at
`vets-website/src/stages/build-content/`. (This should be mostly just a rename
of `build/` to `build-content/` for clarity.) Once the implementation is
complete, this code will **move to a new repository.**

The **application build** will consist of **webpack configuration files** found in
the **root of the project.** If we need any script files to aid in the build
process, they will be located in `vets-website/scripts/build/`.

### Testing Plan

> #### Conslidated build script

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Consolidated build script
```

transition, the application bucket will also contain content. Once the forward
proxy routing is set up and we're confident traffic is being routed to the right
buckets, we can remove the content from the application build.

**Question:** How will we be able to verify that traffic is being routed
properly?

### Logging
**Question:** What _should_ it log? Anything? Is this a Jenkins / Nomad /
CircleCI thing?

### Debugging

#### Content

##### Build
When the [`process-cms-exports`](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/master/src/site/stages/build/process-cms-exports/index.js)
system is live, there will be automated tests to validate input from the CMS and
output from the content transformers.

##### Deploy
To determine whether a page exists in the drupal content, we can go to
`staging.va.gov/drupal/debug/`. This page is not available in production,
however.

#### Application

##### Build
We have automated unit and end-to-end tests that are run on every CI build.

##### Deploy
**Question:** How _do_ we tell whether or not the deploy was successful and the
expected version of the application code is live in production?

> 

Author: I had the idea to add the app version as a Sentry tag quite some time ago too. I like that. My only concern (which I mentioned in another comment) is around using that to grab the right asset on the front end. Just makes me a bit nervous.

   build to build only webpack assets (content on the application bucket
   shouldn't be touched at this point anyhow)
    - **Estimate:** < 1 hour

### Alternatives

#### Mono-repo
The alternative to splitting out the content build into its own separate repo is
to keep it in `vets-website`. The reasons we're not doing this are:
- We're trying to reduce what `vets-website` is "in charge" of
  - Building static content from the CMS and compiling application code are two
    completely separate functions
- We can have one CI pipeline per repository
  - And they'll be more narrowly focused
- We can manage dependencies independently
  - All dependencies in the content build repo are not client-facing
    - There _may_ be exceptions later
  - It will be harder for an application to use be able to use a dependency that
    wasn't intended to be client-facing

#### Single S3 bucket
Instead of deploying content to a separate S3 bucket from the applications, we
could continue to deploy them both to the same bucket. We decided to split up
the deployment to:
- Promote a higher separation of concerns
  - **Question:** Is this even a thing we should be worried about?
- Enable simpler rollbacks

>   - **Question:** Is this valid?

Reviewer 4: Something to consider here is the 100 bucket limit per account. If we grow greater than 100 teams, this will be a problem:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/BucketRestrictions.html

Single bucket multiple folders is what I would suggest. s3 has a flat structure and it treats the folder structure as keys to the object. There is only a limit on the object size and not the bucket size:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/user-guide/using-folders.html

Author: Ooh, interesting. :thinking:

Okay, so you're proposing achieving the same _kind_ of isolation of the applications and content by using separate directories in a single bucket?

I think the reason I came up with the multiple bucket idea was because I couldn't figure out how independent rollback would work, but with versioned folders like you mentioned in our chat the other day, I think that pretty much solves that problem.

I'd be down for this single-bucket approach myself, but I'd like to hear opinions from @nathanhruby or @wyattwalter.

Reviewer: Would this require changing the URL in the `<script/>` tag on every release?

Reviewer 2: the 100 bucket limit can be raised to 1000 whihc is not a limit I think we'd hit.  

Note that for static content sites the bucket must be named after the site being served, so with a single bucket you are also going to force a single hostname (as is the case now).

1. Application build
    - Input: `vets-website` code
    - Output: JavaScript and CSS bundles

The output of both these builds will be deployed to separate buckets. The
reverse proxies will route traffic intelligently to the appropriate bucket given
the request.

![Proposed traffic flow to S3 buckets](images/proposed-traffic-flow-to-s3-buckets.png)

**Important note:** JavaScript application landing pages will live in the CMS.
To get an application into production, the page in Drupal will need to be
published.

**Another important note:** There is no way to coordinate these two deploys to
make an application live for the first time. The process will be to manually:
1. Verify the application assets are live in production
1. Publish the landing page
1. Deploy a new content build

## Specifics

### Detailed Design

#### Build and deploy
- The content build will live in a separate repository
  - **Question:** What should we call this?
  - **Question:** Can the application build be run in Circle?
  - **Question:** Where can we run the content build?
- Content will be deployed to a separate S3 bucket from the application code
- The S3 buckets will have [versioned

>   directories](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Versioning.html)

Author: Do we want versioned buckets like this, or use directories within the bucket named by like commit hash or timestamp or something?

- Content will be deployed to a separate S3 bucket from the application code
- The S3 buckets will be [versioned](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Versioning.html)
  in them with the contents of each deployment
  - Old directories will be removed after 90 days
    - **Question:** What makes sense? This is a totally arbitrary number

#### Routing
- The nginx will route their traffic based on some configuration file
  - **Question:** What configuration file? How does it work?

#### Testing changes to applications
- The Webpack configuration will use
  [`html-webpack-plugin`](https://github.com/jantimon/html-webpack-plugin) to
  generate temporary landing pages for React applications
  - This will happen for all build types
    - Engineers will be able to access the site on a `localhost` build
    - CI can run E2E tests against production code without the output of the
      content build
- The E2E test script in CI will start a process to serve these pages so the
  tests can run a browser and access the applications
- **Important note:** These HTML files will not be served in production; the
  landing pages for the applications come from the content build

>   - **Question:** How do we make this happen?

Author: I'm thinking something vaguely like putting the HTML files in a `build/` or `landing-pages/` or something, and the "real" Webpack assets (JS, CSS, etc.) in like a `dist/` or something.

But then how do we go from there to either
1. Not pushing the temporary landing pages to the S3 bucket, OR
1. Not routing to them when the request for the application page is made

- The landing pages to the applications will be created in the CMS build
- The CMS repo will no longer import `vets-website`, but rather the new content
  build repo
  
#### React application landing pages
**Important note:** JavaScript application landing pages will be created during
the content build. There will be a JSON file with the parameters to create the
landing pages. Parameters include:
- URL of the page
- Bundle name for the application
- Whether the file should be made available in production

When we do this, we need to update the manifest.json documentation and remove
unused properties from all the files.

**Question:** Should this be a transitional stopgap measure until the landing
pages are all created in Drupal, or could this be a viable long-term solution?

#### Cache busting application code
To ensure the latest code is downloaded by the browser, we have to bust the
browser's cache. **Currently**, we're adding hashes to the asset file names and
changing the `<script>` tag's `src` property to point to the file name with
hash.

Once we split out the content build, however, it's infeasible to continue this
approach. Instead, we'll rely on the (`Cache-Control`

> header)[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control].

Author: Anything to add to this, @rianfowler?

Reviewer: We need to summarize the trade off of using the `cache-control` header:

browsers will always make a request before using their cache for the main document
  - higher traffic for S3
  - lower performance for users
- new deployments will be available to browsers only after the the cache expiration time

Author: > new deployments will be available to browsers only after the the cache expiration time

Is that...true? With `no-cache`, the browser will always make the request (and get back a `304 Not Modified` if it hasn't been modified since cached, I believe), so browsers should always get the latest deployments. Unless I'm misunderstanding something, anyhow.

I'll add the other trade-offs, though. :+1:

> # Separate Content Build

Reviewer 3: filename: can you rename this to something with a YYYY-MM-DD date?

i.e. 2020-03-31-separate-content-build.md

## Overview

### Objective
The objective here is to define an approach to isolate the concerns of the
content build from the front end application build and vice versa.

This design document is intended for front end engineers and DevOps engineers on
the Veteran-facing Services Platform (VSP) and other Veteran-Facing Services
(VFS) teams. Most directly affected is the Content Management System (CMS) team.

### Background
VA.gov is composed of static content (`.html`), applications (`.js`), and
styling (`.css`).

Static content files are created from the **[Metalsmith build
script](#build-script)**. Application bundles are created with Webpack.

These builds are currently **orchestrated by the same build script.**

The **[CI pipeline](#ci-pipeline)** runs this build script (among other things)
whenever a commit is pushed to a branch in GitHub. On a branch, this build must
be successful **before the branch can be merged.**

The output of this build are **[deployed](#deployment) to and hosted from an AWS
S3 bucket**. Applications are deployed on a weekdaily schedule. New content is
deployed by a manual trigger from the CMS and by the weekdaily application
deployment.

> The entangling of the content and application builds have [led to

Author: I changed a previous sentence from
> These builds are currently **orchestrated by a single build script.**

to

> These two distinct tasks are currently **entangled in a single build script.**

Does that resolve this?

> The entangling of the content and application builds have [led to

Reviewer: Not really. Where does the design document point out that the output of webpack is used as an input of the static content build and explain why that is a problem?

    - For static pages only
    - Uses the latest `vets-website` release and static assets
      - Does not trigger Webpack to build the JS and CSS bundles
      - Instead,
        [fetches](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/006185b7c40fe85a8b219ae99f3aefb3d8bf0e09/src/site/stages/build/plugins/configure-assets.js#L22-L23)
        the assets [from S3](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/006185b7c40fe85a8b219ae99f3aefb3d8bf0e09/src/site/stages/build/plugins/download-assets.js#L111)
        - Process is triggered [from this Jenkins config](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/006185b7c40fe85a8b219ae99f3aefb3d8bf0e09/Jenkinsfile.content#L32)
    - Does **NOT** run any content validation such as accessibility tests or
      broken link checker
2. [Full deploy](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started/workflow/deploy/#full-deploy-of-vagov-client-app)
    - For `vets-website` code changes

>     - Creates a new release and deploys it

Author: Turns out I maybe don't know what I'm talking about here. The Jenkins code is gnarly and I'm having trouble figuring out what this means. Somewhere along the way, a GitHub release is triggered and I was pretty sure Jenkins grabs that release (compressed `vets-website` at the latest `master` commit...or....I don't know, I guess) and does its thing.

Mayhap the likes of @nathanhruby or @wyattwalter can clarify what exactly is going on? I think I'm more confused now than when I started trying to figure this out. :disappointed:

  command, which isn't obvious
- **Application deployments and PR builds fail** when content in the CMS is
  invalid
  - This includes broken links and accessibility violations
  - We have a safeguard that mostly works; if we run into a failure using the
    latest CMS content, we try again with the cached content in S3 from the last
    successful build
    - This doesn't work when the GraphQL query has been updated; that
      invalidates the cache
    - Errors in liquid templates would potentially break the build and falling
      back to the cache won't help

### High Level Design
The current front end build will be split up into two distinct builds:
1. Content build
    - Input: CMS content
    - Output: HTML files, assets from the CMS (PDFs, images and the like)
    - This maps pretty cleanly to the current partial deploy
1. Application build
    - Input: `vets-website` code
    - Output: JavaScript and CSS bundles
    - This essentially maps to the current full deploy minus the content

The output of both these builds will be deployed to a single S3 bucket with
safeguards in place to ensure they don't override each other.

> **Another important note:** There is no way to coordinate these two deploys to

Reviewer: I think we should work this paragraph some more. 

- use it to summarize the tradeoffs 
- tradeoffs: 
  - the two processes are no longer block each other when validations fail and no longer share data 
  - cache busting currently relies on using new file names in static content on every deploy. splitting the processes will require using a different cache busting technique like `cache-control` headers 
  - new application releases will require manual coordination between CMS and website deployment processes

Reviewer: I see you have a cache busting section that can be referenced. Maybe just move this into the same level section as "new application release" and reference both sections here.

Author: I'm not really following on this one. What "new application release" section?

  - This will happen for all build types
    - Engineers will be able to access the site on a `localhost` build
    - CI can run E2E tests against production code without the output of the
      content build
- The E2E test script in CI will start a process to serve these pages so the
  tests can run a browser and access the applications
- **Important note:** These HTML files will not be served in production; the
  landing pages for the applications come from the content build
  - To ensure these pages aren't made in production, the deploy script will copy
    only the files in `/applications/`

#### Miscellaneous
- We need a separate content validation job that runs once a day on a schedule
  - **Question:** How will we validate links to `vets-website` assets?
  - **Question:** Where will this job be run? Jenkins? Nomad? Circle?
- The application build will be responsible for creating the `settings.js`
  - It's currently a step in the Metalsmith script
- The landing pages to the applications will be created in the CMS build
- The CMS repo will no longer import `vets-website`, but rather the new content
  build repo
  
#### React application landing pages

> **Important note:** JavaScript application landing pages will be created during

Reviewer: Rework this to emphasize that some static pages are not sourced from the CMS and are manually generated by the current build process. These pages will need to be added to the CMS and this section is a proposal to continue generating them with the build script until they are migrated into the CMS.

releases unless we did it deliberately. In that case, it's the responsibility of
the author of the change to ensure the change is valid before deploying it.

###### Rolling back a newly-released application's code, but not landing page
If we release a new application and had to roll the application deployment back,
we could end up with a landing page that points to a JS bundle that doesn't
exist.

**Mitigation:** Similar to [missing application
pages](#missing-application-pages), our approach has historically been to
release a fix instead of reverting a release.

###### Landing page deployed before code
The content release which includes a newly prod-facing application landing page
is deployed before the code is deployed to production.

**Mitigation:** It's up to the team releasing a new application to ensure the
code is in production before deploying the landing page for it.

### Work Estimates
The following estimates vary greatly depending on who's doing the work.

1. Write a standalone script that can be pointed to the build output directory
   to check for broken links
    - **Estimate:** 2 hours - 2 days

> 1. Trigger this job in Jenkins (Nomad? Circle?) after a `master` build succeeds

Reviewer: Have we talked through how this would work with devops? My rough understanding is that we would hit the [release API](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/releases/) to trigger a job in Nomad but the outstanding question was how do we pass the build JS / CSS from Circle to Nomad. 

I don't think it's as simple as compressing them into an archive and putting them somewhere- we might have to do something with docker.

Author: I'm breaking this out into a separate design document. For now, we won't be changing this.

    - **Estimate:** 1 - 2 days
1. Remove the broken link checker step from the Metalsmith script
    - **Estimate:** < 1 hour
1. Remove Webpack from the Metalsmith build script
   `vets-website`
    - Use
      [`html-webpack-plugin`](https://github.com/jantimon/html-webpack-plugin)
      to generate temporary application landing pages
      - Create a template which we can use with the above plugin
      - This should only be used in `localhost` builds until `vets-website` is
        no longer responsible for deploying the content
    - Write a script to run content and application builds while they're both in
      `vets-website`
    - **Estimate:** 1 - 3 days

> 1. Modify the `createReactPages` step to use [the new JSON

Reviewer: does the CMS team need to sign off on this approach?

Author: This part is essentially the same as it has been. The part where we'll want alignment is the bit where we add the React landing pages as pages in the CMS. I evidently haven't outlined that bit very well, so once I do, I'll ask somebody from that team to check it out. :+1:

Author: I added more about this in the `React application landing pages` section.

The objective here is to define an approach to isolate the concerns of the
content build from the front end application build and vice versa.

This design document is intended for front end and DevOps engineers on the
Veteran-facing Services Platform (VSP) and Veteran-Facing Services (VFS) teams.

> The most directly affected group is the Content Management System (CMS) team.

Reviewer 3: This statement seems at odds with not having a CMS team representative as approver, which I understood was because this has _minimal_ impact on CMS team. Can you clarify?

Author: Yeah, I think this is maybe a vestige of a past iteration. I'd be happy to put a reviewer on here from the CMS team, but the impact should be fairly minimal. :thinking: Maybe "most affected" meant "this change will require some work from them, which is more than any other VFS team." Not sure what I was talking about. :confused: 

At any rate, [I've talked with a few folks](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CT4GZBM8F/p1585783218385800) from their team about this briefly, and invited them to review and comment on this PR. I outlined what I expect the impact to them will be.

1. Content build
    - Input: CMS content
    - Output: HTML files, assets from the CMS (PDFs, images and the like)
    - This maps pretty cleanly to the current partial deploy
1. Application build
    - Input: `vets-website` code
    - Output: JavaScript and CSS bundles
    - This essentially maps to the current full deploy minus the content

The output of both these builds will be deployed to a single S3 bucket with
safeguards in place to ensure they don't override each other.

**Another important note:** There is no way to coordinate these two deploys to
make an application live for the first time. The process will be to manually:
1. Verify the application assets are live in production
1. Make the landing page live in production in the content build
    - Depending on the answer to [this
      question](#react-application-landing-pages), this may mean publishing the
      page in Drupal or switching the flag in the JSON file
1. Deploy a new content build

> ## Specifics

Reviewer 3: I feel like there's an open question here around... how do you know which content + application builds are compatible? If content + application can be pushed separately from another, what kind of drift is possible, and how do we mitigate that?

Related q: if in an emergency, you have to roll back to a "known good release", how do you know which one that is, if you now have two separate released units that work together in tandem to serve the site?

Author: Yeah, good question. So the only relationships between the two builds that I can think of right now are:
- The application landing pages being present altogether
- The content on those landing pages
  - `<script>` tags
  - The DOM nodes that the React applications look for to mount on
  - This also is applicable to pages with "widgets;" they'll also need the `<script>` with the right `src` and DOM node to mount on

## Types of drift

### Missing application pages
If we had to revert a content release for whatever reason, we _may_ lose an application page.

### Contents of an application landing page change
The contents of the pages shouldn't change between releases. (I have a `todo` item to add a section on changing the cache-busting mechanism from adding hashes to bundle names to using a cache control header.)

### Rolling back a newly-released application's code, but not landing page
If we release a new application and had to roll the application deployment back, we could end up with a landing page that points to a JS bundle that doesn't exist.

### Landing page deployed before code
The content release which includes a newly prod-facing application landing page is deployed before the code is deployed to production.

I addressed this in the document; I think it'll have to be up to the teams releasing a new application to ensure that the code is live before they make the page live. I'd love to hear alternatives to this, though!

## Possible solutions
- Checking applications manually
  - Maybe not as bad an option as it sounds
  - We should know when an application page has been added and the content release has been reverted (instead of a new release deployed to fix whatever problem occurred)
  - We should also know when the application page or template changed
- Setting up an out-of-band deploy-validation test
  - What I'm envisioning now is some kind of automated browser test that loads up each page we expect to have `vets-website` code served at
  - An idea I had to serve as something of a bridge between the two systems is a kind of "application registry" repo
    - It would basically just be a single JSON file with information about each application such as the URL it should live at and whether it should be available in production (we can add whatever else we need later)
    - We could use this to tell that deployment tester where to look for each application
  - Caveat: This only tests _after_ the deploy, so it won't _prevent_ a "bad" deployment
- What else?

## Post script
This kind of drift is technically possible now (though we'd have to like change the application landing page template to not include that DOM node or something to make it happen). We currently have no way of automatically checking, so anything we do here is an enhancement.

Author: That was a lot of words! How much of this should I add to the document?

Reviewer 3: most/all of it? answers to questions like this on a design doc should generally be "I've updated the doc with the information you requested" :)

Reviewer: >how do you know which content + application builds are compatible?

We don't know this. We won't know this. The CMS and application builds should be completely separated. Apps teams should explicitly manage the elements in the CMS that their react applications hook to. If the elements aren't there or don't work, then it has to be fixed in the CMS. 

If we want monitoring in place to make sure that someone didn't break an app by changing something in the CMS, then that should be handled as a monitoring concern. to me this is a CMS issue- if an element in the content is driving an application, then there should be some sort of locking or alerting when that changes.

Reviewer: >if in an emergency, you have to roll back to a "known good release", how do you know which one that is, if you now have two separate released units that work together in tandem to serve the site?

We can only roll back to a known good application release. My understanding is that the CMS is going to be deploying content up to every 5 minutes and could have hundreds of editors working in it at a time. We need to isolate the application deploy from this as much as possible.

Author: I've added this as a risk with notes about how what we're doing now.

Reviewer 3: > We don't know this. We won't know this. The CMS and application builds should be completely separated. Apps teams should explicitly manage the elements in the CMS that their react applications hook to. If the elements aren't there or don't work, then it has to be fixed in the CMS.

One thing I've seen done for this is a policy around waiting for _two_ prod releases before referencing something new.

i.e. if an application team checks in a new React element Monday am, it goes to prod Monday pm, and then they reference it in CMS Monday evening... that puts them in danger of an application-build LKGR rollback breaking their application.

but if we have a policy that says: check in new React element Monday am, wait for TWO releases to go out before referencing it in CMS, then they should still be safe from a LKGR rollback change.

Reviewer: >check in new React element Monday am, wait for TWO releases to go out before referencing it in CMS, then they should still be safe from a LKGR rollback change.

@gunsch this sounds good. Flipper doesn't support static content changes so maybe whenever we figure that out, it can smooth out this process.

Author: Does it make sense to outline that policy in this document?

Reviewer 3: yeah, I think so --- at least as a proposal. no need to articulate the full explicit policy here or pretend that this design doc is a policy doc, but at least saying "we acknowledge this risk, and this is how we intend to address it" would be worth including.

### Detailed Design

#### Content build in a separate repository
The content build will live in a separate repository called `content-build`.
This repository will contain only code pertaining to the content build.

![Separated content code base](images/phase-2-separated-content-build.png)

#### Coordinating deployments to S3

> We use S3 to serve a static site. To do this, the bucket consists of a file tree

Reviewer 3: For my own knowledge: what handles this translation of "requested URL" to "bucket to fetch file from"?

Author: I believe this is the forward proxy? cc @nathanhruby

Author: Also, to be clear, after talking with Nathan, I changed the approach from multiple buckets to a single bucket, so this is the same as it is now.

Author: Just to clean up the loose ends, I'm marking this as resolved for now. Feel free to reopen if needed, though.
